From https://www.courts.state.co.us/Self_Help/morethan25000/:

2. Follow these steps to open your case.
Step 1: Complete the caption box on JDF 601 Civil Case Cover Sheet, including:

Identify the name of the County and the court address where you plan to file your case.

Identify the name of the Plaintiff (your name) and Defendant (the name of party you are suing). If you have multiple Plaintiffs or Defendants, list only the first Plaintiff or Defendant.

Complete the information for the party or attorney that is completing the JDF 601 Civil Case Cover Sheet.

Once you file your paperwork with the Court, the Court will assign a case number and division and will fill in that information on the Case Cover Sheet.

If a case number has already been assigned, you must still complete the Case Cover Sheet and insert the case number.

Read Chief Justice Directive (CJD) 11-02 to decide if your case is governed by the Colorado Civil Access Pilot Project. Then, check the appropriate box in section number 2.

Step 2: Complete Section 3

Check the appropriate box if the Simplified Procedure applies to your case.

or

Check the appropriate box if the Simplified Procedure does not apply to your case. If you have checked this box, you must also check one of the three boxes within this section to identify why the Simplified Procedure does not apply. The three options are identified below:

1. Some civil actions are automatically excluded and are not subject to C.R.C.P. 16.1. If you are filing a class action lawsuit, domestic relations case, juvenile case, mental health case, probate case, water law case, forcible entry and detainer, Rule 106 or 120 motion, petition to seal criminal record, distraint warrant, county court or municipal court appeal, or a writ of habeas corpus civil action, your case is not subject to the simplified procedure.

or

2. Simplified Procedure does not apply if you are seeking a monetary judgment for more than $100,000.00 against any other party, including attorney fees, penalties or punitive damages, but excluding interest and costs, as well as the value of any equitable relief sought.

or

3. Simplified Procedure does not apply if another party has previously indicated in a Civil Case Cover Sheet that the Simplified Procedure under C.R.C.P 16.1 does not apply to your case.

 

Step 3: Complete Section 4 (Optional)

1. You can request a jury trial and pay the requisite fee at this time. If you check this box, your filing fee must include the jury demand fee. Please refer to C.R.C.P. 38 for your right to request a jury trial and waiving the right to a jury trial.

2. If you are making a jury demand pursuant to ยง38-1-106, C.R.S. a jury demand fee is not required for a jury of six freeholders. However, if you are requesting a jury of freeholders in excess of six (including alternates), an advance deposit of $50.00 per extra juror for one day of service is required. For example, if you demand a jury of 12, an advance deposit of $300.00 ($50.00 x 6) is required.

 

Step 4: Sign and date the Civil Case Cover Sheet.

The party or the attorney, if applicable, must date and sign the Civil Case Cover Sheet.
